# Meeting at Stubbings Wharf, 22nd April 2025

## Present

* Robin Howorth
* Bede
* Peter Edwards
* Sally Barker
* Mo

## Agenda

1. First 3 to 6 volunteer events (balsam, beech thinning, laurel/rhododendron clearance and any others)
2. Contact Phil Singh and ask for support in balsam work.
3. Buying saws and gloves etc 
4. Advertising 
5. Website 
6. Next meeting

Any other business

## Minutes

We started off talking about the walk on Sunday 6th April.

There were over 20 people on the walk, but no children - it would be good to try to include activities aimed at younger people. We talked about the possibility of contacting local schools, including Hebden Royd Primary which sometimes has a Summer Art Exhibition around the second chimney. Children would need to be under supervision.

Jenny from CROWS (Community Rights Of Way Service - https://crows-coop.co.uk/) offered to volunteer for future activities.

Miranda (ecologist) was a good contact for questions about the local flora and fauna (otters, newts and the usefulness of stagnant ponds).

Paul Knight offered maps containing the old field names and knows a local ornithologist(?).

### Advertising

The walk was advertised on:

* the WhatsApp group
* What's On In Hebden
* hebweb
* Blackshaw Head Parish Council
* Heptonstall Parish Council
* Eventbrite (no bookings)

Other possible targets:

* Heptonstall Post office
* Heptonstall Tea Rooms

It would have been good to have some publicity material available on the walk to give to people. It would also be good to have a website, but we need some branding and a logo.

It was thought that a regular event (first Sunday each month), at a regular time (10.00) at a regular meeting place (Eaves Recreation ground) would make the events memorable.

**Action** get the website up and running (Hazel, Anna and Pete)

### Events

Events should be classified under a generic title of *Woodland Management*, to include:

* young beech cropping and making dead hedges from the cuttings
* blasm bashing
* woodland identification
* rhodedendron clearnace
* laurel clearance
* hedge laying
* planting

**May 4th** is the next event. It will be a ~~balsam bashing~~ *woodland management* session.

We need to contact Phil Singh for help and advice, and to find out if there are any areas we need to concentrate on.

It was suggested we start at the top (of the valley at the New Delight, or the top part of the valley twwards Eaves). Possibly look for areas we can concentrate on between now and May 4th.

It was also suggested that we take one of Bede's pertol pwered strimmers and extend it on a long pole to get balsam in the more difficult to reach areas, but this excellent and practical suggestion regrettably fell on deaf ears.

This will be an all day session (10.00 - 15.00) split into two parts - 10.00 - 12.00 and 13.00 - 15.00. 

**Action** buy hand saws and gloves (Mo and Robin)
**Action** contact Phil Singh (Robin)
**Action** get an idea who will be turning up, and for how long (All - WhatsApp?)

**July 6th** - another ~~balsam bashing~~ *woodland management* session.

Build on the work of the previous event.

**Action** discuss at next meeting.

### Future Events

Gordon Riggs are giving away free  fruit trees for groups. Could plant som,e around the recreation ground (ask Phil Singh).

Laying hedges around the recreation ground - this would be a winter event (led by Robin?) - need to seek council approval.

Need to contact Together Housing, who own and manage the two large mill ponds behind Eaves Avenue. Plkans to increase the biodiversity in these areas, along with Laurel cropping and beech cutting (but *not* to take responsibility for the area!) 

### First Aiders

Get funding fgfrom Calderdale Community Foundation for training for at least 4 first aiders for the group.

**Action** investigate funding source and costings (Bede)

### AOB

Hazel is reaching out to an otter person - has anyone spotted any otters?

Bede wants to get a wildlife camera to get a better understanding of what wildlife is present in the Clough, especially at night.

Bird spotting - using Merlin (app which identifies birds from their song) - curlews, woodpeckers, meadow warblers, dunnocks, dippers

Mo has some *lungworts* in her garden after years of fastidious cultivation - what other beautiful and useful plants can we get to replace the balsam?

It would be good to do more in the recreation ground (as well as planting fruit trees and laying hedges) like doing some landscaping to encourage natural biodiversity. Community growing. A bug hotel.

### Next meeting: 15th May 19.00 Stubbing Wharf
